Platform RPG

What I'd like to create is a RPG game similar to how Terraria works.  E.g you're in a randomly generated world, and you move on a 2D platform.

The biggest differences is that I don't want "magic" or any real fantasy elements.  I'd like it to be human vs human style'd world with animals etc.

The buildings and what not should be medeval focused but the game play isn't aimed at being "realistic", it still needs to be fun.

I'd like to use a pixel art style, something like 32x32 being the basic tile size and objects being various scales of 32x32 so hit boxes are easy to calculate.

All materials and items need to be "useful" meaning if it's a junk item, it should at least be broken down into useful materials.

Crafting should be multi-tiered, meaning complex items require simple items, simple items, require base materials, base materials require raw.

There should be an emphasis on balancing crafting and crafting should play an important part of the game as items should wear out with use so there's a need to be gathering and crafting.

One thing I've noticed watching Terraria game play is that you craft things once and never need them again, there's no maintenance.

There also needs to be a good balance between items crafted and "epic loots".  Bosses and harder NPC's should drop powerful, but expensive to maintain items, so they should be used when needed, not just cuz.

I'd like a rewarding game where a player must balance crafting, gathering, etc with fighting NPC's for loot.  There should be an element to the "cave crawl" to make exploration interesting.

Unlike how Terraria does it's single huge world, I'd like to do a "small joined world" style of layout.

Baiscally, I'd like each world to be "N x N" in size, something like 256 x 256 32px tiles is a "world", each world can be joined with a portal.  Portals are spawned randomly  towards the edges of the world.

Each portal connects to a joined up world allowing travel between the two.  Once a world has been visited, there should be an item or alter craftable to allow a player to travel between two unjoined worlds.

This would be the only really "magical" element to the game, but it'd be there to enable easy travel between worlds.


Okay, so actually working on this.  Need to keep tabs on my ideas.

So the world is divided into parts.  We'll have it's higherarchy going like this:

World -> Region -> Province -> Tile

Tile being the smallest unit of terrain in the game, world being the entire wrapper for all the others.

Province is the smallest "place", meaning it's the place the player directly interacts with.

Region contains 1-N number of Provinces.  Provinces connect to each other linearly, so each one connects to the next via the east/west.

Each province will have it's own biome for the surface.  Underground terrain will be similar wherever you are, but the biomes can cause different levels of minerals to spawn.
Provinces will have their biome diversity controlled by the Region.  For instance a Region might be primarily mountains, so many of the provinces will have a majoirty
of mountainous terrain.

Elevation is also related to the biome.

For space saving purposes, each Province will be a set size.  I'm thinking 256 wide, by 128 high.  That gives 32,768 32x32 locations, which is around 1.04m unique X/Y locations.
the provience starting at 0,0 and ending at 8192,4096 (I think it'll actually be 8191,4095 due to the -1 from a zero alignment).